- [Instructor] There are several projects
that you should spend a little time reading about
as you start to get yourself immersed into Spring.
The first is testing.
In my opinion,
one of the coolest aspects of Spring Boot
and Spring in general
is the emphasis on inherent testing.
In fact,
you've actually been testing your application
with the Spring framework
every single time you have built it in this course
before you ran it.
And it's a default test
that exists in your source test resources
that specifically validating
that the application context itself
has been configured correctly.
Unit testing in Spring should be very familiar to you,
if you have written Java,
because unit testing with Spring
should be done agnostic of the Spring framework.
Spring is not needed in most cases
to unit test your application.
Dependencies should be injected as mock objects
into your class.
If you have written your classes with good OOP practices,
you simply use the mocks in the constructor, if required,
or through setters, if optional or dynamic,
to test your application.
If one of your dependencies is J2EE or OS constructs
like environment or JNDI,
Spring provides mocked objects
within the Spring framework library
that you can work with
so that you don't have to worry about
how to mock those standard dependencies.
Ultimately, your strategies should be very simple
and leverage a proper testing framework like JUnit,
which is default from the Spring Boot test starter.
Now, one addition to basic unit testing
comes in the form of controllers.
Like JNDI or environment,
Spring provides a construct to mock the servlet API.
These mocks allow you to leverage servlet behavior
in the unit tests of your controller classes.
For those methods that rely on ModelAndView,
there's an assert library
that can be used to validate the model
as populated correctly.
And the view is as well
when using that signature for your controller method.
Now, in this course,
we just simply put the model in
and we returned our view as a string,
which is a valid way to do webpages.
But with this model that we used, if we were to test this,
we would just simply use normal assert language
because the model is part of the signature,
but we'll return the view name.
Now, if you've done anything in Spring
or watched other courses that I have done with Spring,
you may have heard about MockMVC.
It's a super powerful library for testing controllers,
but Spring considers this to be an integration test.
So we'll discuss this one in just a bit.
Now integration testing is based on four main goals
and these goals are provided directly by Spring.
First of all is to manage the Spring IoC container caching
between tests.
It's also to provide dependency injection
of test fixture instances.
It is to provide transaction management
appropriate to integration testing.
And it is to supply Spring-specific base classes
that assist developers in writing these integration tests.
Now, there are several key areas
where using Spring as part of your integration tests
dramatically improved performance and coverage.
JDBC testing is dramatically simplified
with the addition of JDBC TestUtils.
Annotations are a big part of the Spring framework
and testing is no different.
There are many annotations that come with Spring test,
things that are used to set the active profile
or the web context,
or provide transaction support,
dynamic property sources based on your tests,
and many more.
I encourage you to learn about these
and to use them to your advantage as necessary.
And that documentation can be found
in the learning section for the Spring framework.
Spring test also allows you to leverage a TestContext
so that you can control
aspects of the application context itself
while testing.
With this model,
you can do things like record and fire events,
manage the context itself,
inject test fixtures and marks,
and evaluate beans like session and request.
The MockMVC framework is probably the most known
and for good reason.
This is one area I would encourage you
to take our existing program
and learn how to test the web services and web pages
using MockMVC with a TestContext.
This will really give you a headstart
on testing Spring based applications
earlier on in your journey of learning Spring.
I do have a core Spring Boot Essential Training
that goes into MockMVC in some detail.